## What Is Cybersecurity?

First, it is important to cover what cybersecurity and information technology security are. This is a large, broad term that encompasses practices, processes, and technology designed to protect an organization, company, or business’s devices, data, networks, and programs from attacks, unauthorized access, and other types of damage. While cybersecurity is used to protect people against malware and viruses, it is also used to protect businesses from natural disasters.

There are numerous types of cybersecurity involved. For example: 

Network security is designed to protect a company’s networks and servers from harm. 

On the other hand, application security is usually employed for computer and mobile web applications. 

Informational security is also used to ensure that information is protected as it moves from place to place. 

Finally, operational security often involves physical systems that are used to prevent cyber attacks from taking place.

Also, it is important to notice some of the most common reasons why cybersecurity is so critical. Government, corporate, military, financial, and even medical organizations process and store tremendous amounts of information daily. Much of this information is incredibly sensitive. Besides top-secret files that are likely on government and military devices, even healthcare organizations need to protect patient information under HIPAA laws. If consumer information is not protected, then this will undermine consumer confidence in organizations of all types. Therefore, it is important to ensure that all information is adequately protected using cybersecurity measures.

If correct measures are not employed, then there is a significant risk that hackers or cyber criminals could end up stealing information and using it for personal gain. For example, they could use this information to open up accounts in other people’s names or even steal bank account records directly. With this in mind, it is critical to employ the right cybersecurity professionals to ensure that this information is protected from harm. Because cyber threats come in many shapes and forms, everyone needs to stay up-to-date on the cybersecurity field’s latest developments. By working hard to remain ahead of hackers, it is possible to prevent these attacks from taking place, which is always preferable to cleaning up the results of these attacks after they have already happened.

## Elements of Cybersecurity

During the past few years, there have been significant advancements in the world of cybersecurity, cyber crime, and cyberterror. As a result, these systems have become more complicated than they ever have been. With this in mind, a comprehensive cybersecurity system must ensure that information and equipment are protected from end-to-end. Therefore, some of the most important elements of cybersecurity include:

- Endpoint Security: Many organizations store their data remotely today; however, this can also be a vulnerable location. Remember that if employees and staff can access information remotely, then it could also be accessed by criminals. Endpoint security focuses on protecting remote access to sensitive files. Some of the most common endpoint security measures include VPNs, firewalls, and other tools.
- Data Security: Data security is a broad term that encompasses all forms of data protection. For example, this could be something as simple as a username and password that restricts access only to those who have the right credentials. This could also include encryption methods that protect data as it is transferred from place to place. Data security is one of the foundational pillars of cybersecurity as a whole.
- Identity Management: This critical part of cybersecurity ensures that everyone has access to the right information. Specifically, nobody should ever have access to something that they do not need to do their job. Reducing the number of people who have access to specific files minimizes the risk of company data being compromised if one set of credentials is stolen.
- Database and Infrastructure Security: This area of cybersecurity focuses on physical barriers that are in place. These barriers are used to prevent criminals from accessing hardware or stealing it. This could include something as simple as a lock or something as advanced as a comprehensive security system.
- Cloud Security: The cloud has become an integral part of internet use. Employees can upload information to the cloud, allowing others to access it without generating a long email chain. At the same time, the cloud also makes organizations more vulnerable. Cloud security focuses on protecting information that is stored on the cloud from harm.
- Mobile Security: Every day, more sensitive information is uploaded to phones. Therefore, all phones need to be protected appropriately. In addition to having a strong password, mobile security also focuses on making sure no information is stored on a phone unless it has to be and teaches others how to safely connect to a mobile network.
- Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity Planning: In addition to hackers, natural disasters are also a significant threat. This could take the form of a fire, a hurricane, or a tornado. If a natural disaster strikes a physical location, it is crucial to ensure the business can continue operating. This is where a business continuity plan comes into play. With the right disaster recovery services, the damage can be cleaned up quickly, and files can be restored.
- End-User Education: When it comes to cybersecurity, it is always more effective when everyone is pitching in. This is where end-user education is essential. In this manner, employees will be educated on the current best practices, ensuring they can keep themselves and their peers safe from harm.
- Data Loss Prevention: If companies lose their data, this could set them back years. Therefore, the data needs to be protected. This is where the 3, 2, 1 rule is important when it comes to data backup. Ideally, there should be three separate sets of data stored on two different media types, with one location being off-site. By protecting data from being lost, businesses can solidify their operations.
- Intrusion Detection System: Lastly, it is essential to cover an intrusion detection system. The system is put in place to alert key professionals if unauthorized access to the company’s system is detected. For example, this might include a text message sent to the IT department or an email sent to a manager. The goal is to lock down the system after this intrusion has taken place and trace the signal to see where it came from.

This represents just a couple of the key elements that go into a comprehensive cybersecurity plan. It is important to ensure that every cybersecurity strategy includes these elements so that employees and their data can be protected from harm.

## Cybersecurity Threats and Attacks

To prevent a cyber threat or a cyber attack from taking place, it is important to understand what they are. There are several key types of cybersecurity threats and attacks that everyone should know, often covered by the National Institute of Standards and Technology or NIST. They include:

### Cybersecurity Threats:

There are several ways criminals might aim to gain access to a business network and compromise its sensitive data. If employees can understand these attacks and how they take place, it could prevent them from unfolding. Some of the [most common types of threats](https://preyproject.com/blog/en/what-are-cyber-threats-how-they-affect-you-what-to-do-about-them/) in the world of cybersecurity include:

- Hacking: Without a doubt, this is the most common type of cybersecurity threat. The goal of hacking is to gain authorized access to the company’s system. In some cases, hackers possess credentials that they have stolen. In other cases, hackers might seek to execute a brute force attack, where they simply try to go through combinations as quickly as possible until the network is unlocked.
- Trojans: A trojan horse attack is a traditional type of cybersecurity threat. With this type of attack, a hacker will seek to email a file to a company or an individual containing a virus but disguising it as legitimate. When the file is opened, the virus is released, and the attack unfolds.
- Phishing: A phishing attack is a prevalent type of cybersecurity threat. With this type of attack, a hacker seeks to disguise themselves as a company member, trying to convince someone to surrender login credentials. Then, with these credentials, the hacker can execute an attack on the company’s system.
- Spear Phishing: This is a variation on the traditional fishing attack. A phishing attack usually targets many people at once; however, a spear phishing attack typically leverages social media accounts and other information to individually target a single person. Then, once that person surrenders their credentials, the hacker can gain access to the network.
- Malware: Malware is a generic term used to describe a wide variety of viruses and cybersecurity threats. Several significant issues could be caused by malware. For example, some types of malware simply act to slow down the network, making it impossible for the network to keep moving. In other situations, malware might seek to steal sensitive information before releasing it to the public. Malware detection is critical and strong security programs can help.
- Social Engineering: This is just another name that is used to describe spear phishing attacks. These attacks turn to social engineering because they leverage social interaction to get people to surrender their login information. The best way to prevent these attacks from taking place is to educate employees on how these attacks unfold, the threats they pose, and what they should do if they think someone has targeted them.
- Cross-Site Scripting: This is usually shortened to XSS. This is a common vulnerability in specific scripts that hackers can exploit. Found in web applications, client-side scripts are injected into popular webpages. Then, using these scripts, hackers can access sensitive information when people visit the website.
- Ransomware: One of the most terrifying types of cyber attacks out there, a ransomware attack, is used to lock up a company’s network or server completely. When a ransomware attack is executed, everything on the system is encrypted, rendering it unusable. Companies are then asked for a ransom by the hackers, who will not release the network until the ransom is paid. Even though companies can try to unlock the network themselves, time is costing them money. If this attack is executed on a healthcare system, it can even take down critical life support systems.
- DNS Spoofing: Often, this attack is also referred to as DNA cache poisoning. In this attack, a corrupt data code is introduced into the resolver of the DNS system. When this malicious code reaches a server, the server ends up returning incorrect information. As a result, hackers can gain access to sensitive data that is owned by the company.

These are a few of the biggest threats that companies need to keep in mind when it comes to the world of cybersecurity today. Also, there are other types of cybersecurity attacks that could be launched as well.



https://digitalskills.wisc.edu/cybersecurity/cyber-security-concepts-every-beginner-must-know/